Add CloudFormation template for lambda + EventBridge setup (#10540)
grafana/loki: docs/sources/send-data/lambda-promtail/_index.md

This workflow allows ingesting AWS Application/Network Load Balancer logs stored on S3 to Loki.

If using CloudFormation to write your infrastructure code, you should consider the [EventBridge based solution](#s3-based-logging-and-cloudformation) for easier deployment.

### Cloudtrail logs

This workflow allows ingesting AWS Cloudtrail logs stored on S3 to Loki.

If using CloudFormation to write your infrastructure code, you should consider the [EventBridge based solution](#s3-based-logging-and-cloudformation) for easier deployment.

### Cloudfront logs
Cloudfront logs can be either batched or streamed in real time to Loki:
+ Logging can be activated on a Cloudfront distribution with an S3 bucket as the destination. In this case, the workflow is the same as for other services (VPC Flow logs, Loadbalancer logs, Cloudtrail logs).
+ Cloudfront [real-time logs](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonCloudFront/latest/DeveloperGuide/real-time-logs.html) can be sent to a Kinesis data stream. The data stream can be mapped to be an [event source](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/lambda/latest/dg/invocation-eventsourcemapping.html) for lambda-promtail to deliver the logs to Loki.

> If using CloudFormation to write your infrastructure code, you should consider the [EventBridge based solution](#s3-based-logging-and-cloudformation) for easier deployment.

Reviewer: I feel like saying this four times is repetitive.  Could we maybe just say it once, up in the Examples, CloudFormation section, right after line 86?

Author: Agree, moved there

To manage the issue, AWS introduced [S3 event notifications with Event Bridge](https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/aws/new-use-amazon-s3-event-notifications-with-amazon-eventbridge/). In that way, when an object gets created in a S3 bucket, this sends an event to an EventBridge bus, and you can create a rule to send those events to Lambda-promtail.

The diagram below shows how notifications logs will be written from the source service into an S3 bucket. From there on, the S3 bucket will send an `Object created` notification into the EventBridge `default` bus, where we can configure a rule to trigger lambda promtail.

![](https://grafana.com/media/docs/loki/lambda-promtail-with-eventbridge.png)

> The [template-eventbridge.yaml](https://github.com/grafana/loki/blob/main/tools/lambda-promtail/template-eventbridge.yaml) CloudFormation template configures Lambda-promtail with EventBridge, for the use case mentioned above:

Reviewer: If I'm understanding this correctly "use case mentioned above" = "known issue"?
```suggestion
The [template-eventbridge.yaml](https://github.com/grafana/loki/blob/main/tools/lambda-promtail/template-eventbridge.yaml) CloudFormation template configures Lambda-promtail with EventBridge to address this known issue:
```

Author: mmm yes, like for working around the known issue above

> 

Reviewer: Now that the docs site has a copy/paste feature for code snippets, we probably need some instructions about what users need to edit before they run this command.  Especially because of how it will scroll off the page in the docs, hiding most of the parameters.

Author: added. I think we can keep it short as copy and fill the `ParameterValue` values, since they are self explanatory, and it's usual for cloudformation users to just use our template as reference, and treat them as snippets for re-using in their own.

### On-Failure log recovery using SQS
Triggering lambda-promtail through SQS allows handling on-failure recovery of the logs using a secondary SQS queue as a dead-letter-queue (DLQ). You can configure lambda so that unsuccessfully processed messages will be sent to the DLQ. After fixing the issue, operators will be able to reprocess the messages by sending back messages from the DLQ to the source queue using the [SQS DLQ redrive](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSSimpleQueueService/latest/SQSDeveloperGuide/sqs-configure-dead-letter-queue-redrive.html) feature.

### S3 based logging and CloudFormation

> Lambda-promtail lets you send logs from different services that use S3 as their logs destination (ALB, VPC Flow, CloudFront access logs, etc.). For this, you need to configure S3 bucket notifications to trigger the lambda-promtail deployment. However, **when using CloudFormation** to encode infrastructure, there is a [known issue](https://github.com/aws-cloudformation/cloudformation-coverage-roadmap/issues/79) when configuring `AWS::S3::BucketNotification` and the resource that will be triggered by the notification in the same stack.

Reviewer: I don't think we need to bold this.  The hyperlink for the known issue should be enough formatting to draw the eye to this.
```suggestion
Lambda-promtail lets you send logs from different services that use S3 as their logs destination (ALB, VPC Flow, CloudFront access logs, etc.). For this, you need to configure S3 bucket notifications to trigger the lambda-promtail deployment. However, when using CloudFormation to encode infrastructure, there is a [known issue](https://github.com/aws-cloudformation/cloudformation-coverage-roadmap/issues/79) when configuring `AWS::S3::BucketNotification` and the resource that will be triggered by the notification in the same stack.
```

> To manage the issue, AWS introduced [S3 event notifications with Event Bridge](https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/aws/new-use-amazon-s3-event-notifications-with-amazon-eventbridge/). In that way, when an object gets created in a S3 bucket, this sends an event to an EventBridge bus, and you can create a rule to send those events to Lambda-promtail.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To manage this issue, AWS introduced [S3 event notifications with Event Bridge](https://aws.amazon.com/blogs/aws/new-use-amazon-s3-event-notifications-with-amazon-eventbridge/). When an object gets created in a S3 bucket, this sends an event to an EventBridge bus, and you can create a rule to send those events to Lambda-promtail.
```

> The diagram below shows how notifications logs will be written from the source service into an S3 bucket. From there on, the S3 bucket will send an `Object created` notification into the EventBridge `default` bus, where we can configure a rule to trigger lambda promtail.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The diagram below shows how notifications logs will be written from the source service into an S3 bucket. From there on, the S3 bucket will send an `Object created` notification into the EventBridge `default` bus, where we can configure a rule to trigger Lambda Promtail.
```

![](https://grafana.com/media/docs/loki/lambda-promtail-with-eventbridge.png)

The [template-eventbridge.yaml](https://github.com/grafana/loki/blob/main/tools/lambda-promtail/template-eventbridge.yaml) CloudFormation template configures Lambda-promtail with EventBridge to address this known issue. To deploy the template, use the snippet below, completing appropriately the `ParameterValue` arguments.

```bash

> aws cloudformation create-stack --stack-name lambda-promtail-stack --template-body file://template-eventbridge.yaml --capabilities CAPABILITY_IAM CAPABILITY_NAMED_IAM --region us-east-2 --parameters ParameterKey=WriteAddress,ParameterValue=https://your-loki-url/loki/api/v1/push ParameterKey=Username,ParameterValue=<basic-auth-username> ParameterKey=Password,ParameterValue=<basic-auth-pw> ParameterKey=BearerToken,ParameterValue=<bearer-token> ParameterKey=LambdaPromtailImage,ParameterValue=<ecr-repo>:<tag> ParameterKey=ExtraLabels,ParameterValue="name1,value1,name2,value2" ParameterKey=TenantID,ParameterValue=<value> ParameterKey=SkipTlsVerify,ParameterValue="false" ParameterKey=EventSourceS3Bucket,ParameterValue=<S3 where target logs are stored>

Reviewer 2: nit: splitting up the line might help for readability

```suggestion
aws cloudformation create-stack \
  --stack-name lambda-promtail-stack \
  --template-body file://template-eventbridge.yaml \
  --capabilities CAPABILITY_IAM CAPABILITY_NAMED_IAM \
  --region us-east-2 \
  --parameters ParameterKey=WriteAddress,ParameterValue=https://your-loki-url/loki/api/v1/push ParameterKey=Username,ParameterValue=<basic-auth-username> ParameterKey=Password,ParameterValue=<basic-auth-pw> ParameterKey=BearerToken,ParameterValue=<bearer-token> ParameterKey=LambdaPromtailImage,ParameterValue=<ecr-repo>:<tag> ParameterKey=ExtraLabels,ParameterValue="name1,value1,name2,value2" ParameterKey=TenantID,ParameterValue=<value> ParameterKey=SkipTlsVerify,ParameterValue="false" ParameterKey=EventSourceS3Bucket,ParameterValue=<S3 where target logs are stored>
```
